feat(ci): add mirage/rocjitsu emulation tests (#6436)
ROCm/TheRock: docs/development/adding_tests.md

Reviewer: i would reach through the changes here again. a lot of it is written, but it is hard to read, with lots of random commas and punctuations that don't match well

> [!NOTE]
> When adding a new component to TheRock (typically a new .toml file), you may need to update `install_rocm_from_artifacts.py` to allow CI workflows and users to selectively install it.<br>
> Adding libraries to existing components requires no script changes.<br>
> See the [Adding Support for New Components](./installing_artifacts.md#adding-support-for-new-components) guide for step-by-step instructions.

## Emulated tests (mirage / rocjitsu)

Some GPU targets have no test hardware in CI, and some failures are cheaper to
catch against a simulated device than a real one. For those,
[`fetch_test_configurations.py`](../../build_tools/github_actions/fetch_test_configurations.py)
can derive an **emulated variant** of a test component that runs on the CPU
cluster, with [mirage](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems/tree/develop/emulation/mirage) driving the
[rocjitsu](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems/tree/develop/emulation/rocjitsu) software GPU emulator instead
of talking to a real device.

Opting a component in is a single field:

```
"rocrtst": {
    "job_name": "rocrtst",
    ...

>     "emulate": "rocjitsu",

Reviewer: can we make "emulate": "rocjitsu" bold? to highlight that this is the field being changed

}
```

That produces a second matrix entry alongside the hardware one, named
`rocrtst (emulated mi350x)`, which:

> - runs on the CPU cluster (`linux_cpu_runner`), with no GPU devices mapped into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- runs on the Linux CPU builder  with no GPU devices mapped into
```

  the container — rocjitsu emulates the GPU in software, so an emulated job on
  GPU hardware would hold a scarce runner for its whole timeout and use none
  of it,
- additionally fetches the `mirage` and `rocjitsu` artifacts,
- gets 10x the component's `timeout_minutes`, capped at one hour — the budget

>   an emulated component has to fit in to be worth scheduling at all, and so the

Reviewer: fix wording. it's confusing

- runs unsharded, and
- has its whole `test_script` wrapped in `mirage run`, with `TEST_EMULATOR` and
  `TEST_EMULATOR_PROFILE` baked in as literals — so the command reproduces a
  run on its own, including under the component-repo copies of
  `test_component.yml` and in the failure-reproduction output.

The `test_script` itself is unchanged, which is the point: the emulated variant
runs the same entry point the hardware job does, so emulation does not fork the
test definition. For components on the standardized
[`test_runner.py`](../../build_tools/github_actions/test_executable_scripts/test_runner.py)
that means the emulated job selects from the same component-owned
`test_categories.yaml` — usually a cheaper category than the hardware job runs
(see [Choosing what an emulated job runs](#choosing-what-an-emulated-job-runs)),
but through the same mechanism.

Everything that excludes the hardware job — `exclude_family`, test labels,
project selection — excludes the emulated variant too. The one exception is the
multi-GPU availability check: rocjitsu emulates the device in software, so a
component whose family has no multi-GPU pool still gets its emulated variant.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Emulated jobs must never be routed to GPU hardware — they would hold a scarce

Reviewer: if this is true, do we have logic where "emulate_only" is mapped to a CPU builder? seems it still routes to GPU

Reviewer 2: The docs now explain that emulate_only keeps the base entry out of the matrix, and the emitted job is the derived build_emulated_job() result with linux_cpu_runner: true.

The `test_script` itself is unchanged, which is the point: the emulated variant
runs the same entry point the hardware job does, so emulation does not fork the
test definition. For components on the standardized
[`test_runner.py`](../../build_tools/github_actions/test_executable_scripts/test_runner.py)
the emulated job selects from the same component-owned `test_categories.yaml`,
usually with a cheaper category than the hardware job runs. See
[Choosing what an emulated job runs](#choosing-what-an-emulated-job-runs).

Everything that excludes the hardware job — `exclude_family`, test labels,
project selection — excludes the emulated variant too. The one exception is the
multi-GPU availability check: rocjitsu emulates the device in software, so a
component whose family has no multi-GPU pool still gets its emulated variant.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> `emulate_only` keeps the base entry out of the matrix. The emitted job is the
> one returned by `build_emulated_job()`, which sets `linux_cpu_runner: true` and
> removes `multi_gpu`, `multi_gpu_runner`, and `is_benchmark` so

> > `test_artifacts.yml` routes it to the Linux CPU builder.

Reviewer: is handled here: https://github.com/ROCm/TheRock/blob/c3621af90a101adb38758ecff0a27b9dddface6d/.github/workflows/test_artifacts.yml#L247-L258

can remove
